
## Work of the last few weeks
Proteins are indispensable to the living organisms, forming the backbone of almost all the cellular processes. These macromolecules rarely act alone, interacting with each other, integrating the protein-protein interactions (PPIs). Abnormal PPIs and mutations over the binding sites can lead to the gain or lost of key interactions, which, may have serious implications in certain diseases, while clarifying the molecular basis of these diseases, a fundamental aspect to establish prevention, diagnosis and treatment methods. In recent years, this field of study has been under an explosive development, as new laboratory techniques have been established. In response to the time and cost inefficient techniques developed, the implementation of in silico methods, as a complement to the existing approaches, have been, increasingly, rising in popularity, since they enable a fast and inexpensive manner to predict these interactions. In this paper we propose a deep learning model, more specifically a convolutional neural network, as a tool to predict, using merely the amino acid sequences, if two individual proteins are capable of interacting with each other. The central aspect of the model presented is focused in the similar and parallel blocks of convolutional and pooling layers applied, simultaneously, to both proteins, which function as deep feature extractors, capable of identifying local dependencies between the proteins and revealing patterns. Those features are later concatenated, in a feature vector, specific to every interaction, which will be, posteriorly, classified as a interacting or non-interacting protein pair. We examine several model architectures, with the purpose of inspecting, if the contrasting layers and model’s sites where those layers are implemented, actually lead to better performances and lower computational time by the various models. After rigorous experimental validation the model proposed acted as a reliable predictor of PPIs, as it was able to outperform benchmark algorithms in several datasets.
